# Exercise - Miro

For this exercise, we'll be imagining that you have been tasked by the team at
Miro to test some of their product's functionality.

Miro is a whiteboard tool which you can either use in your browser or install
locally - you might have already used it for something before or during Makers!
It allows users to collaboratively work on a virtual whiteboard, adding sticky
notes, drawing diagrams and so on, just as though you were all gathered around a
real whiteboard in a meeting room or office somewhere.

## Steps

You'll be putting skills and knowledge from earlier sections into practice - you
should be more familiar by now with the general approach of planning, testing
and reporting. There's no formal submission at the end of this exercise, so your
focus should be more on the first two phases - planning first, then putting some
of those plans into action by running some tests.

Some notes to guide you:

* You have a choice to make - browser or local installation (it's up to you,
  noting functionality may be different in each)
* Your session should have a focus on *usability*, see below for more details

## Usability

While "usability testing" is a huge topic in its own right, for the purpose of
this exercise you should approach the work keeping a question in mind at all
times - is it "usable"?

This could mean any one of a number of things and could mean different things to
different people (it's like "quality" all over again!). Some ideas might be:

* Is it easy to learn? Can you discover what you need to know in order to start
  using it?
* Can you do what you want to do with it? Is it easy to use?
* How do you feel while you're using it? What's your overall experience like?

## Exercise

You'll be using one of Miro's whiteboard templates - Flowchart. When you first
start Miro, from "Create a board" there will be recommended templates and you
should choose the Flowchart option and be testing against that.

If you're not familiar with flowcharts, have a read through of the
[Overview](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flowchart#Overview) section of
Wikipedia. You may well find these used or useful at other times in the world of
quality engineering and software development!

Start the exercise now - you should aim to run a time-boxed exploratory testing
session of no more than 1 hour. How long you spend planning and wrapping things
up afterwards, is your choice to make.

If you aren't sure how to begin, what to do or just generally want to watch a
similar session, run on a different part of Miro, take a look at this video.
Note that it's over a shorter amount of time than your challenge.

<!-- OMITTED -->

[Next Challenge](04_pair_challenge.md)

<!-- BEGIN GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->

---

**How was this resource?**  
[😫](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F03_pair_exercise.md&prefill_Sentiment=😫) [😕](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F03_pair_exercise.md&prefill_Sentiment=😕) [😐](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F03_pair_exercise.md&prefill_Sentiment=😐) [🙂](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F03_pair_exercise.md&prefill_Sentiment=🙂) [😀](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F03_pair_exercise.md&prefill_Sentiment=😀)  
Click an emoji to tell us.

<!-- END GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->
