# Different Approaches to Quality Engineering

While communities like those in software testing are often welcoming of people,
debates and ideas, there is a lot of variation in terms of how people work,
their practices and opinions.

We won't teach that there is a single correct way to do things, but instead give
you the knowledge and tools to compare, contrast and form your own opinions
through understanding.

## "Best Practices"

Given there's no single correct way to do testing, it follows that there is no
overall "best practice". Instead, it's better to think of there being a few good
practices which depend on the context.

Approaches to software testing that work in one situation would be mostly
ineffective or highly inappropriate in another. A very formal, heavily
documented approach might be necessary in a world of something like the
healthcare industry where compliance and records ready for auditing are
critical, but it would be too time consuming for a two-week "sprint" of agile
development that's starting work on overhauling the look and feel of a website.
Similarly, ad hoc exploratory testing might work well in the latter, but not the
former.

## ISTQB & Context-Driven Testing

The [International Software Testing Qualifications Board](https://www.istqb.org)
(ISTQB; previously ISEB) is one of the organisations that provides professional
certification for software testing - there are others like [Black Box Software
Testing](https://associationforsoftwaretesting.org/bbst-black-box-software-testing-courses/)
(BBST), the [British Computer
Society](https://www.bcs.org/qualifications-and-certifications/certifications-for-professionals/software-testing-certifications/)
(BCS), etc. and this is not a suggestion of recommending one (or any) over
another, but the ISTQB is one of the more well-known.

There is some noteworthy overlap between the Software Tester Apprenticeship and
things like the Foundation course offered by the ISTQB. While some common
terminology and idea of approaches in the world of software testing can help
create a common language between testers and other testers or developers,
practical courses and hands-on experience also play an important factor in
learning how to become a better tester.

While this section touches upon certifications, there are many software testing
courses out there as well, from things like [Ministry of
Testing](https://www.ministryoftesting.com) (MoT) and [Rapid Software
Testing](https://rapid-software-testing.com) (RST) courses. Again, we note these
things here for visibility rather than recommendation - different things will be
"right" for different people and/or organisations.

## Organisational Approaches to Testing

Continuing from certifications above, you're likely to find that different
organisations take different views of certifications in general, as well as from
specific bodies. Some software testing roles state very clearly that a
particular certification - even to a particular level, such as being more than
just foundational knowledge - is a prerequisite to apply. Others make no such
statement, even going so far as to say it's not required or desirable.

Likewise, even the setup within an organisation that works on software will vary
from company to company, sometimes from team to team within a company. In some
situations, development and test teams are entirely separate entities even
working from different countries and are deliberately working as independently
as possible. Some others have no testers at all, with developers both writing
code and testing (their own code or that of their colleagues). Others have
specialist testers or quality engineers embedded within teams, working closely
with the developers and everyone else throughout a project.

There are pros and cons to all these and we are not here to judge nor to say
that there's a single correct way that they should be done. As before, the
context effects the choice and what works and what doesn't: the industry and its
requirements in which an organisation works matters; the people at the company,
their history, skills, experiences and how they want to work matter too.

## Community

While everyone is different, if you're wondering how to immerse yourself even
further into the world of software testing and quality engineering, there are
many good testing communities available, often filled with people who are -
perhaps unsurprisingly - very happy to talk about all things testing.

These communities can be in person, from lean coffee mornings (discussing topics
of interest - a great entry point for new testers) to conferences. There are
also lots of online communities and famous (within the testing world!) faces who
write blogs, do talks, discussions, etc. with others in the community or from
outside.

If you're interested, speak with one of your coaches for ideas, ask how they got
started or even what they personally might recommend!

[Next Challenge](06_functional_non_functional.md)

<!-- BEGIN GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->

---

**How was this resource?**  
[üò´](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F05_more_on_testing.md&prefill_Sentiment=üò´) [üòï](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F05_more_on_testing.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòï) [üòê](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F05_more_on_testing.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòê) [üôÇ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F05_more_on_testing.md&prefill_Sentiment=üôÇ) [üòÄ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase4%2F05_more_on_testing.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòÄ)  
Click an emoji to tell us.

<!-- END GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->
