# Quality Across the Organisation

_Coaching this? Read the coach guidance
[here.](https://github.com/makersacademy/slug/blob/main/materials/universe/quality_engineering/intro_to_testing/phase2/workshops/organisation.x.md)_

While your coach(es) will be running a session on this, some of which is based
on exercises you did yesterday, here is some accompanying course material.

## Organisational Roles

An organisation can have a huge number of different roles, many of which could
be involved in software development, and it would be impossible to exhaustively
list them.

In your group exercise yesterday, you took on an example set of those roles and
thought through how they might influence quality.

### Stakeholders

While the role of a Developer and Tester is likely to be more obvious, it's
worth looking into who or what is a Stakeholder.

Literally, a Stakeholder is anyone or any group that has a stake or interest in
the outcome of a project. A stakeholder could be someone like a project manager
or product owner within the company, or they could be a representative at the
company that made the request and is financing the project. There may be one or
many, and they might have different needs to each other as well, potentially
conflicting ones.

Within an organisation, stakeholders often need or want to be informed about
progress. From a testing and quality point of view, this may mean information
like test progress reports or lists of open defects/bugs need to be provided to
the stakeholders. It's important that any information like this is conveyed in
terms that the stakeholders are able to understand.

Stakeholders who are better informed, through things like information gained
from test activities, can make better decisions on the effective delivery of
higher quality software.

## Software Development Life Cycle

As we've said before, there are some variations on what stages exist in the
"SDLC". For now, we're going to work from these ones:

1. Requirements & Analysis
2. Project Planning
3. Design
4. Coding & Implementation
5. Testing
6. Deployment
7. Maintenance

Whether you think of these in a linear fashion or something more iterative, we
can still look into what each of them might entail.

### Requirements & Analysis

At the beginning of a project, requirements can be gathered from someone like a
customer. These are likely to come from analysing problems they want solving or
could be from an internal person who is proposing a new ideas perhaps to target
a new market.

### Project Planning

Groups including stakeholders and senior members of the teams plan the project.
This is likely to involve things like timescales, resourcing, risks, contingency
plans, opportunities and so on. It might result in a plan to amend something
that already exists or to create something new.

### Design

People in roles such as system architects and developers, as well as hopefully
test engineers, use the previously generated requirements to produce designs of
how it could work. This might involve factors like other products with which
this would need to integrate, and is likely to result in multiple designs from
which stakeholders would choose just one.

### Coding & Implementation

Developers will use the prescribed design to write code in order to implement
the program or changes. This work is often done according to coding standards or
guidelines, following processes like test-driven development.

### Testing

As noted elsewhere, testing could/should be happening at more stages than just
one after coding and implementation. However, there are activities that more
naturally occur later in the cycle, after much of the implementation is done,
such as user acceptance testing (UAT) to check whether the implementation
satisfies the original requirements and will be an acceptable solution for the
users.

### Deployment

The project is then released to the customer. This could happen in different
ways, for example by making it available to them through an in-house cloud
deployment, or by shipping it to the customer to install and use. Customer
Support may be involved at this stage, helping to support the customer through
installation and/or their first-use of it.

### Maintenance

After the project is released, real world customer usage may highlight problems
that need to be quickly patched or supported by teams such as Customer Support.
So a Maintenance phase looks at life after Deployment.

## Influencing Quality

Previously, you worked in a group to talk about different roles and stages of a
project and how quality could be influenced. Your coach will lead a session on
this, where you can discuss your ideas.

## Quality Throughout

Dan Ashby, an experienced tester and quality engineer who is also associated
with the Ministry of Testing, created the following interesting way of thinking
about quality:

<img
src=https://danashby04.files.wordpress.com/2022/07/screenshot-2022-07-22-at-20.49.56-1.png
/>

The stages of the SDLC flow from left to right, here split into three phases of
Ideation (i.e. Requirements & Analysis, Planning, Design), Implementation, then
Support & maintenance. On the left are different potential points of view on
quality.

You can read more about his ideas on this on his associated [blog
post](https://danashby.co.uk/2022/07/22/8-perspectives-of-quality-a-model/).

[Next Challenge](02_exploratory.md)

<!-- BEGIN GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->

---

**How was this resource?**  
[üò´](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase2%2F01_organisation.md&prefill_Sentiment=üò´) [üòï](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase2%2F01_organisation.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòï) [üòê](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase2%2F01_organisation.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòê) [üôÇ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase2%2F01_organisation.md&prefill_Sentiment=üôÇ) [üòÄ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase2%2F01_organisation.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòÄ)  
Click an emoji to tell us.

<!-- END GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->
