# Risks

_Coaching this? Read the coach guidance
[here.](https://github.com/makersacademy/slug/blob/main/materials/universe/quality_engineering/intro_to_testing/phase1/workshops/risks.x.md)_

While your coach(es) will be running a session on this, here is some
accompanying course material.

Simply put, a risk is something that may or may not occur which could cause some
sort of problem or loss. In the world of software development and quality
engineering, risks (as a concept) come up a lot when we making decisions about
things from how to design a program, what we should test first, through to
whether we're in a position to release a product.

A risk could be almost anything. There's a risk that your laptop stops working
in the middle of reading this section. There's a risk that an asteroid crashes
into earth before you get to see the exciting material in Phase Two.

It all sounds very "doom and gloom", but risk assessment is all about that -
thinking up what bad things could happen, so that we can do something about it
to help reduce how likely they are or how severe they could be if they do occur.

## Likelihood

One part of a risk is the likelihood of it occurring. To use one of the examples
from before, it's really very unlikely that an asteroid would crash into earth
today. We have lots of ways of examining objects in space and so have good
confidence that if it were going to happen today, we'd likely know about it by
now! But there are other more likely risks, like the risk someone will try to
hack into a banking application or a corporation in order to steal their
intellectual property.

It's common to see an evaluation of likelihood given on either a numerical scale
(e.g. 5 is very likely and 1 is unlikely) or a High/Medium/Low rating.

## Severity

The second part of a risk is how severe the event would be, were it to happen.
To use the same example from above, an asteroid crashing into earth would be
very bad for almost every species on our planet. But there are other far less
severe risks as well, like the risk someone will enter the wrong password
accidentally when logging into the banking application, and have to be asked to
do it again.

It's common to see an evaluation of severity given on either a numerical scale
(e.g. 5 is very negatively impactful and 1 is minor) or a High/Medium/Low
rating.

## Risk Assessment

The two factors above - likelihood and severity - should be considered
separately as an overall risk assessment needs to take both parts into account.
You may see grids like the following one, where the two different factors for a
single risk are combined or multiplied together to give an overall risk
assessment:

|  |  |  | Likelihood |  |
|--|--|--|------------|--|
|  |  | **Low** | **Medium** | **High**
|  | **Low** | Low | Low | Medium
| **Severity** | **Medium** | Low | Medium | High
|  | **High** | Medium | High | High

For numerical evaluations, the values are usually multiplied together e.g. 25 is
the highest risk for 1-5 numerical scales.

The decisions around what a Low Likelihood + High Severity risk (for example)
come out as (Medium, in the table above) depend on the organisation and what's
important to them. It's common to see decisions based on tables like these, such
as any risk that's assessed as being High needs immediate attention and
mitigation.

## Relationship to Quality

As we've said before, risks are a big part of software development at a number
of different stages. The overall "quality" of a product can be increased by
looking to remove or mitigate higher risks.

As test engineers, considering risk can be an extremely useful tool for working
out what or where to test first - we call this risk-based testing. Focusing our
efforts on things that are most likely to happen and/or are going to have the
most severe impact, can result in information on the quality of the product that
matters more to the organisation as a whole. This is in opposition to a tester
focusing on less often used, less impactful, less important, more reliable, etc.
areas of the product which, given there's not an infinite amount of time in
which to test, wouldn't be as great of a use of time.

[Next Challenge](03_group_quality.md)

<!-- BEGIN GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->

---

**How was this resource?**  
[üò´](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase1%2F02_risks.md&prefill_Sentiment=üò´) [üòï](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase1%2F02_risks.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòï) [üòê](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase1%2F02_risks.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòê) [üôÇ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase1%2F02_risks.md&prefill_Sentiment=üôÇ) [üòÄ](https://airtable.com/shrUJ3t7KLMqVRFKR?prefill_Repository=makersacademy%2Fintro-to-testing&prefill_File=phase1%2F02_risks.md&prefill_Sentiment=üòÄ)  
Click an emoji to tell us.

<!-- END GENERATED SECTION DO NOT EDIT -->
